Tutorial/jsonscheme (#114)
gardener/landscaper: docs/usage/JSONSchema.md

# JSONSchema

> Data imports and exports and exports of Blueprints are defined using JSONSchema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data imports and exports of Blueprints are defined using JSONSchema.
```

> JSONSchema is a definition language for describing the structure of json or yaml data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSONSchema is a definition language to describe the structure of json or yaml data.
```

In the Landscaper context the default jsonschema `$ref` property is extended by 3 additional protocols:
- `local://` - read from the Blueprints local attribute
- `blueprint://` - read from a file in the blueprint
- `cd://` - Component Descriptor

### Local

In a blueprint it is possible to define jsonschema in a property called `localTypes`.
This makes it possible to define a blueprint wide type that can be used across imports and exports in the blueprint.

The type can be used in other schemas by using the `$ref` property with `local://<name of the type>`.

:warning: the localtypes cannot be used by other blueprints

_Example_:

```
apiVersion: landscaper.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: Blueprint

localTypes:
  "myType": 
    type: number
    
imports:
- name: my-import
  schema:
    $ref: "local://myType"
- name: my-other-import
  schema:
    type: object
    properties:
      a:
        type: string
      b:
        $ref: "local://myType"
```

### Blueprint

The blueprint type is similar to the [local type](#local) with the difference that the jsonschema can be defined in a file that is packaged with the blueprint.

> This feature is useful when definition is too large for a single file and should be split into different file for readability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is useful when a definition is too large for a single file or should be split into different files for readability.
```

The type can be used with the `$ref` property and `blueprint://path/to/schema.json`.

> The root and the pwd path is always considered to be blueprint directory where the `blueprint.yaml` is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root and the pwd path are always considered to be the blueprint's directory (where the `blueprint.yaml` is located).
```
